README.markdown, before:


mn2e.bst
========

`mn2e.bst` is the bibliography style file used for the `latex2e` Monthly
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society style file.  See the
journal's instructions for authors at [OUP][] (Sect. 6.3), and the downloadable
files at [CTAN][].

[OUP]: http://www.oxfordjournals.org/our_journals/mnras/for_authors/
[CTAN]: http://www.tex.ac.uk/CTAN/macros/latex/contrib/mnras/

Previously this file was distributed by Blackwell Scientific.


Style-file support
------------------

Recent changes to the .bst file potentially require support from the
mn2e.cls class file.

  * The `.bst` file generates references to DOIs, and to URIs mentioned
    in the `.bib` file, but using macros `\doi` and `\url`.  The
    `hyperref` package defines the `\url` macro, but one can define
    suitable alternatives which typeset the URIs appropriately, even
    if they don't actually make the hyperlink.  These macros are used
    only within the generated `.bbl` file.  See below.

  * The style file also generates references which implement MN's
    'three authors' rule using a macro `\mniiiauthor`.  These macros
    are used in citations (that is, via the `\cite` macro) and so
    outside the generated bibliography (in `.bbl`).

The file `mn2e-bst.sty` contains the definitions required to support
the newly-generated `.bst` output.  This is packaged here as a `.sty`
file, and it can either be loaded as such, using the usual
`\usepackage{mn2e-bst}`, or else (better) incorporated directly into
the `mn2e.cls` file.  In either of these cases, (i) the 'magic
comments' should be removed from the definition of function
`begin.bib` at the bottom of `mn2e.bst`; and (ii) the line `#0
'threeauthorvar :=` in `mn2e.bst` can be changed to `#1
'threeauthorvar :=`.  In consequence (iii) the `compress-sty.sed` and
`Makefile` files can be removed from this directory (and this README
reworded appropriately).

Alternatively, `mn2e.bst` is currently configured so that (i) it
incorporates the `mn2e-bst.sty` file into the generated `.bbl` file, and
(ii) the `\mniiiauthor` functionality is disabled, using the
`threeauthorvar` switch mentioned above.  This means that the
generated `.bbl` file is almost standalone, but this route is rather
fiddly, and in consequence potentially fragile.

If hyperref is _not_ used, then it is necessary to define the `\href`
and `\url` macros as follows:

    \def\href#1#2{#2}
    \def\urlinner#1{#1\endgroup}
    \def\url{\begingroup\def\do##1{\catcode`##1 12 }%
      \do\\\do\$\do\&\do\#\do\^\do\_\do\%\do\~ \ttfamily \urlinner}

(there is a more compact alternative at the top of `mn2e-bst.sty`,
which can be used within a class file).


Authors
-------

This style file was originally written by John Sleath and Tim Jenness
at the Mullard Radio Astronomy Observatory in the summer of 1995. It
was derived from the `astron.bst` style file which itself was derived
from the `apalike.bst` style file.

Norman Gray (<http://nxg.me.uk> and <http://8ameter.com>)
provided the multi-author style fixes, and the additions

Commit message:

Edit to remove damn-fool over-complication of the Makefile.
If the contents of mn2e-bst.sty are changed, they must be edited in to the
mn2e.bst file by hand.  This is slightly ugly, but not half as ugly (on
reflection) as the acrobatics which avoids it.

README.markdown, after:


mn2e.bst
========

`mn2e.bst` is the bibliography style file used for the `latex2e` Monthly
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society style file.  See the
journal's instructions for authors at [OUP][] (Sect. 6.3), and the downloadable
files at [CTAN][].

[OUP]: http://www.oxfordjournals.org/our_journals/mnras/for_authors/
[CTAN]: http://www.tex.ac.uk/CTAN/macros/latex/contrib/mnras/

Previously this file was distributed by Blackwell Scientific.


Style-file support
------------------

Recent changes to the .bst file potentially require support from the
mn2e.cls class file.

  * The `.bst` file generates references to DOIs, and to URIs mentioned
    in the `.bib` file, but using macros `\doi` and `\url`.  The
    `hyperref` package defines the `\url` macro, but one can define
    suitable alternatives which typeset the URIs appropriately, even
    if they don't actually make the hyperlink.  These macros are used
    only within the generated `.bbl` file.  See below.

  * The style file also generates references which implement MN's
    'three authors' rule using a macro `\mniiiauthor`.  These macros
    are used in citations (that is, via the `\cite` macro) and so
    outside the generated bibliography (in `.bbl`).

The file `mn2e-bst.sty` contains the definitions required to support
the newly-generated `.bst` output.

Currently, `mn2e.bst` is configured so that (i) it incorporates the
content of the `mn2e-bst.sty` file into the generated `.bbl` file (see
the function `begin.bib`, at the bottom), and (ii) the `\mniiiauthor`
functionality is disabled, using the setting `#0 threeauthorvar :=` in
`initialise.mn2e`.  This means that the generated `.bbl` file is
standalone, but doesn't support the MN 'three-authors' prescription.

Ideally, this file will be incorporated directly into the `mn2e.cls`
file, or at a pinch loaded as usual using the usual
`\usepackage{mn2e-bst}`.  In this case, (i) the function `begin.bib`
should be edited to remove the now-superfluous definitions; and (ii)
the line `#0 'threeauthorvar :=` in `mn2e.bst` can be changed to `#1
'threeauthorvar :=`.

If hyperref is _not_ used, then it is necessary to define the `\href`
and `\url` macros as follows:

    \def\href#1#2{#2}
    \def\urlinner#1{#1\endgroup}
    \def\url{\begingroup\def\do##1{\catcode`##1 12 }%
      \do\\\do\$\do\&\do\#\do\^\do\_\do\%\do\~ \ttfamily \urlinner}

(there is a more compact alternative at the top of `mn2e-bst.sty`,
which can be used within a class file).


Authors
-------

This style file was originally written by John Sleath and Tim Jenness
at the Mullard Radio Astronomy Observatory in the summer of 1995. It
was derived from the `astron.bst` style file which itself was derived
from the `apalike.bst` style file.

Norman Gray (<http://nxg.me.uk> and <http://8ameter.com>)
provided the multi-author style fixes, and the additions to the
style-file to support DOIs and the MN three-author requirement.
